add draft post for external-domain migration (#1942)
18F/cg-site: _posts/2021-06-10-external-domain-migration-announcement.md

to the new service to ensure their certificates can continue renewing without issue. To accomplish this, we've written internal tooling to
migrate instances automatically without service interruption, but it does require some action on your part to intiate the migration.

## What you need to do

The new external-domain service uses a different method of validation with Let's Encrypt, which relies on specific DNS records being created on
your part. To begin the migration, we need you to create 2 DNS CNAME records for each domain on your custom-domain or cdn-route instances.

The first CNAME should created for the record `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN` and should have the value
`_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.  In other words, if you have a custom-domain service created for
`directorate.agency.gov`, you'd want to create a CNAME record `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov` with value
`_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

The second CNAME should be for `$DOMAIN` and should point to `$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.  Using the `directorate.agency.gov`

> example above, this would be `directorate.agency.cloud.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.  Note that the second change here changes how

Reviewer: Can we make this a bit more explicit/simple that changing this CNAME will NOT cause downtime for users? This gets a bit technical for a lot of folks.

Author: I'm a little concerned about a blanket "this is safe" statement - updating your site's is something that should be approached with caution. The target audience here is the person/people making the DNS change, so I think the technical language is appropriate (but I'd happily accept suggestions on making it clearer). 
Would a "reach out with any questions" here make you feel better about this?

Author: @davemcorwin I did a little wordsmithing here to try to make it more readable. LMK if you think it still needs work!

---
layout: post
title: "Migrate to the external-domain service"
date: June 10, 2021
excerpt: Customers need to take action to migrate from the cdn-service and custom-domain service to the external-domain service
---

## Who is this for?

> This post is for all users of the cdn-route or custom-domain services.

Reviewer 2: Should we include a specific qualifier here so people know these are deprecated services and to remind them?  e.g.:

```suggestion
This post is for all users of the deprecated cdn-route or custom-domain services.
```

## Background

The custom-domain and cdn-route services leverage Let's Encrypt to provision certificates on our users' behalf.
Several months ago, Let's Encrypt announced that they're deprecating their v1 API. To work with their new API, we've written a replacement
to the cdn-route and custom-domain services, the external-domain service. We now need to migrate your service instances
to the new service to ensure their certificates can continue renewing without issue. To accomplish this, we've written internal tooling to

> migrate instances automatically without service interruption, but it does require some action on your part to intiate the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
migrate instances automatically without service interruption, but it does require some action on your part to initiate the migration.
```

## What you need to do

> The new external-domain service uses a different method of validation with Let's Encrypt. The new method relies on specific DNS records being created on
> your part. To begin the migration, we need you to create 2 DNS CNAME records for each domain on your custom-domain or cdn-route instances.

Reviewer 2: Would this read easier?

```suggestion
The new external-domain service uses a different method of validation with Let's Encrypt. The new method relies on specific DNS records being created for your domain(s). To begin the migration, you need to create 2 DNS CNAME records for each domain on your custom-domain or cdn-route instances.
```

> The first CNAME should created for the record allows us to provision SSL certificates on your behalf.

Reviewer 2: Missing word:

```suggestion
The first CNAME should be created for the record allows us to provision SSL certificates on your behalf.
```

This record is for the name `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN` and should have the value `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

> In other words, if you have a custom-domain service created for `directorate.agency.gov`, you'd want to create a CNAME record `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov` with value `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

Reviewer 2: Clarifying language a bit:

```suggestion
For example, if you have a custom-domain service created for `directorate.agency.gov`, you'd create a CNAME record `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov` with the value `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.
```

The second CNAME routes the user traffic to your site. It should be for `$DOMAIN` and should point to `$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

Using the `directorate.agency.gov` example above, this would be
`directorate.agency.cloud.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

Note that the second update here changes how users get to your site.
We've made every effort to validate we're prepared for this change, but you should confirm that
`$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov` currently resolves before making this change.

You can do this by directly comparing the outputs of `nslookup $DOMAIN` and
`nslookup $DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`, or by modifying your `hosts` file
to point `$DOMAIN` to one of the IP addresses `$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`

> currently resolves to. If either of these tests fail, STOP, do not update

Reviewer 2: Bolding an important point/step:

```suggestion
currently resolves to. **If either of these tests fail, _STOP_ and do not update**
```

---
layout: post
title: "Migrate to the external-domain service"
date: June 10, 2021
excerpt: Customers need to take action to migrate from the cdn-service and custom-domain service to the external-domain service
---

## Who is this for?

This post is for all users of the cdn-route or custom-domain services.

## Background

The custom-domain and cdn-route services leverage Let's Encrypt to provision certificates on our users' behalf.
Several months ago, Let's Encrypt announced that they're deprecating their v1 API. To work with their new API, we've written a replacement
to the cdn-route and custom-domain services, the external-domain service. We now need to migrate your service instances
to the new service to ensure their certificates can continue renewing without issue. To accomplish this, we've written internal tooling to
migrate instances automatically without service interruption, but it does require some action on your part to initiate the migration.

## What you need to do

> The new external-domain service uses a different method of validation with Let's Encrypt. The new method relies on specific DNS records being created for your domain(s). To begin the migration, you need to create 2 DNS CNAME records for each domain on your custom-domain or cdn-route instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new external-domain service uses a different method of validation with Let's Encrypt. The new method relies on specific DNS records being present for each of your domains. To begin the migration, you need to have configured the following DNS records for each domain on your custom-domain or cdn-route instances.
```

| Type  | Name                      | Value                                                           |
|-------|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| CNAME | `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN` | `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov` |

> | CNAME | `$DOMAIN`                 | `$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CNAME* | `$DOMAIN`                 | `$DOMAIN.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`                 |
```

The `_acme-challenge.$DOMAIN` CNAME record allows us to provision SSL certificates on your behalf.

As an example, if you have a custom-domain service created for `directorate.agency.gov`, you'd want to create a CNAME record `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov` with value `_acme-challenge.directorate.agency.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

The `$DOMAIN` CNAME is responsible for routing the user traffic to your site.  Using the `directorate.agency.gov` example above, this would be `directorate.agency.gov.external-domains-production.cloud.gov`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you already have `CNAME`, `A`, and/or `AAAA` (with `ALIAS`) record(s) for `$DOMAIN`, you should update the value or replace the record to match what is shown above.

* If your domain is a "2nd level domain" (i.e. `agency.gov` instead of `directorate.agency.gov`) you will need to use an `A` and/or `AAAA` (with `ALIAS`) record(s) assuming your DNS provider supports it.

```

Author: I think this should be `and` rather than `and/or`
